We're rolling.
Great books, Mary Parr.
I really started all the notes I had.
Oh, so great.
Tell me a bit about writing a memoir of a little girl.
Let me also say, last summer, I do interviews with P.W.
too.
And I do the Tobias Wolfe piece with P.W.
Uh-huh.
Yeah, well, actually, I didn't see it.
I never get P.W., but Toby's my old friend and neighbor.
Yeah, but it's interesting that I think two of the finest memoirs I can think of growing up are
written by Sarah Fusen.
Sarah Fusen.
I could say it.
You know, the weird thing is I actually live in his old house.
Is that right?
But I've also known him for 18 years, and I knew his brother when he wrote that memoir about their daddy.
Which is good.
The Duke of Deception, which I really liked.
I've always liked the form, and I think I cultivated... I mean, you know, the myth is that these things happen through nepotism.
I think it's much more that you...
If you're really interested in a certain kind of writing, you seek out the people who do it.
Now, what's the myth?
What happens to an epitome?
Oh, I don't know.
You know, that there's some connection other than, that there's some evil connection.
But it's really just, I remember, I mean, I always, Toby was always a great writer.
I mean, even before he wrote This Boy's Life, he was a great short story writer.
Oh, it's a short story.
Oh, yeah.
But he had, I mean, he had nothing to do with my getting hired.
He's not even, I'm hired as a poet, and he's a proser, so...
Uh-huh.
It's all lost on you.
No, it's not lost.
I just think it's a stupid argument.
Yeah, it is.
If you teach the course and the right to.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, you certainly have the skill to write.
The decision to write, though, did Toby influence your decision at all to write about... No.
No, no, but I mean, certainly his book did.
I mean, the... It's working.
Okay.
The other one wasn't out yet, obviously, but I remember reading that book, and I hadn't seen him in a long time, seven or eight years, and I read him a fan letter.
And I had tried to write this book as a novel, and he sent me back a wonderful little paragraph of advice.
And this was before I was at Syracuse.
I was actually at the Bunting Institute at Radcliffe at the time as a poet.
Can somebody bring us something to drink?
We would kill for something to drink.
He wants an iced tea?
I want a Diet Coconut, the biggest glass of water I can get.
So, I mean, he wrote me a really great letter of advice that I taped above my desk while I wrote.
He said a lot of smart things.
One of them was, take no care for your dignity.
Take no care for your dignity?
But why did he advise against the novel?
He didn't.
I just wasn't able to do it.
It would have made a terrific novel.
No, but I don't know anything about writing a novel.
But you write creatively.
You write poetry.
And it's filled with beautiful imagery.
I know, I know.
And it has a plot.
But I think a memoir is necessarily anecdotal.
The reader sort of allows for the fact there's going to be one story, then another story, then another story.
And I try to have an overarching plot in it that pulls you forward a little bit.
But a novel seems to me just such a
When I tried to write a novel, I behaved better than I did in real life.
So, I mean, some people, I've talked to real fiction writers, I think, find a novel easier to tell the truth in a novel, and I just found it easier to lie.
Now, we talk about truth, of course, with a capital T, but I used to
You certainly are recalling events that happened 33 and 33 years ago.
Yeah, yeah, a long time ago.
How confident are you in the accuracy of the detail, or is that relevant at all?
Not at all.
I mean, I can tell you a couple of interesting anecdotes.
I mean, I saw it.
I think there are two ways to write a memoir.
You write a memoir as if it's an act of history, which I think Jeffrey did with his first book, where he went and he interviewed and he looked up records and he did all that.
Or you can do it as an act of memory, which is what Toby did, I think, with this baseline.
Particularly the last one.
Yes.
Where he said he took no notes in Vietnam because I knew I'd remember what was important.
Yeah.
And I'd forget that it wasn't.
So what I decided to do was to write it as a memory and then do some, a little, I did a little fact checking after.
And certainly my mother and my sister both read it.
There are some interesting things.
One is that not only did they not correct a single point of fact, not one, but I just did an article for the June Harper's and the June Harper's Bazaar where I interviewed like half a dozen, like Frank Conroy, Jekyll Jeffrey, Maxine Hong Kingston.
I saw that.
Yeah, yeah.
Not one of them had anyone in their family correct a fact.
And, you know, the only thing I can figure is
that I mean for a long time I just thought like in my family everybody was so tickled it was you know that we're gonna have a we're gonna settle down and raise a book you know that they you know they were excited about it that um but then it occurred to me that you know I think in a family you adjust all the time for um somebody else's perception you know like when you try to do the eulogy for for my dad's wedding
He was a different dad for me than he was for my older sister.
And I think families accommodate that, the difference in experience.
I did have another sort of weird piece of anecdotal evidence about the veracity of it.
I'm sure it's rife with mistakes.
I went back to Colorado with my sister after I'd written a section on Colorado.
And I have the worst
memory for where i am of anybody in christendom i mean when i lived in boston i never went anywhere except on the subway or if someone came to get me but i'm just you put me outside i get lost i'm just the opposite are you my sister is like you i can be one place once and that's all you have to be i can go there 20 years later well that's why you live here okay i lived here i was lost for 13 years the whole time i was here i never knew where i was you lived here 13 years yeah a long time a long time
Um, but I went to, I found all these, um, thank you, we were both killed for a glass of water.
Oh boy.
What's in there?
Oh, for the tea.
Oh, how smart.
How inventive, I've never tried it.
Yeah.
Thanks a lot.
Um,
And I went right to all these places, like in the one town I went to the stable, I went to the little mountain trail where we rode our horses.
And I do have a really good memory for language, and I tried to minimize the dialogue I did.
You know, I tried to not have whole long passages of dialogue.
I tried to do exposition.
Here and there.
I mean, except for the Liars Club stuff, which is obviously... That's the biggest fudge in the whole thing, is making up the... Of course, we all belong to Liars Clubs, I think.
That's a metaphor that a few of your critics have picked up.
No kidding.
It's more than just Daddy's group.
Oh, it's all of us.
I mean, towards the very end, we're all liars.
Any subjective truth is a lie, obviously.
And, yeah, I pretty much...
bellied up to the bar and said, you know, this is, um, I've chosen not to do an historical study.
It's a subjective truth, and therefore, I mean, my mother said a smart thing, I thought, about the whole deal, which isn't she the ball?
I wish you could see her now.
She's such a sex poodle.
She really is so cute.
She's, um,
She's hot.
She really is.
I mean, she's 74 years old, and she, you know, smokes.
Kind of a poor lady's Elizabeth Taylor.
She really is.
She always did.
I'll tell you, even now, 74 years old, she just had bypass surgery.
You could send her out on the street, and she could pick somebody up.
You send her to a museum.
Those eyes.
She has an old man to eat lunch with within 10 minutes.
But she said an interesting thing that she said, I never knew that you didn't have, that you didn't understand.
I'm trying to just check over.
I don't blame you.
She said, I can't believe you didn't understand my motives.
You know, you didn't know that in fact I was trying to get you and your sister out of this town.
I mean, my experience of it was she ripped me away from my father, took me to this place with all these crazy people, bought a bar and tried to drink herself to death.
But in fact, she was trying to make a better life.
I mean, it's a sort of wacky, you know, plan.
But, no, she's terrific.
I mean, she really is.
Oh, I think that scene in the drinking the margaritas of the Mexican restaurant.
Well, no, that is as true as I can remember it.
It's absolutely wonderful.
It really is.
She said, I'll tell you, but we have to get drunk to do it.
She was just like... Sounds good to me.
I know, exactly.
She's so great.
And I love the image.
This guy looks like a cut plumb.
Oh, yeah.
Thank you so much.
I really like that.
That's hers, huh?
That's hers.
Well, she's an artist.
You know, she has this amazing visual intelligence, which I don't have.
I'm pretty good with the words, you know.
But she has this amazing eye.
Visuals.
Yeah.
Now, how come just two years, basically?
I mean, we have to go back.
We go to 1980.
I wanted to tell the plot that I had in mind had to do with this
The one part of my childhood I didn't remember was the night when she had this big breakdown, dragged everything out in New York.
And I guess I... But the big mystery, I mean, that was the only, you know, sort of part of my childhood that I had, that I didn't remember until I was in therapy.
Everything else I remember, you know, none of it was repressed or forgotten or anything.
But just the story of finding those...
out about her past finding those kids.
You kind of don't want us to mention that in that piece, right?
It's up to you.
I mean, other people have mentioned it, you know.
I mean, you can say... It really is a climax.
But the fact that she had this dark past, and... Oh, I must say, I sensed it when Grandma showed the picture, and we knew about the many husbands.
Right.
Who the hell is Belinda?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
But it's weird that my sister and I had the same experience, and then we both promptly forgot it.
I mean, it's weird.
And then when I started, again, so I wanted to tell that story.
And that patch in our lives was the patch where things were craziest, where all our characters, I think, or all our feelings,
as a family, were sort of at their peak for all of us.
We all, I mean, most of my life wasn't this crazy, thank God.
Now, was it just a decision to create Leachfield, just to, I mean, it's pretty obvious.
A mythical place, yeah.
A mythical, I mean, it's pretty obvious what it is.
Right.
Well, I, um.
Especially in the biography where they say you grew up in Port Ireland.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, the, um,
I didn't grow up in Port Arthur proper.
There are, like, dozens of little towns that it could be.
My mother still lives in the same house I lived in.
I mean, that was one thing.
And you know people there still.
It's not even that.
It was, like, people like the guy who was my grade school principal, you know, or just the guy who ran the drugstore and killed himself.
How often are you dealing with living people here?
Well, he's obviously not living.
Yeah, but there are living people.
Yeah, but I mean, that's the thing.
You didn't want somebody who didn't know already to know, you know.
I mean, anybody who grew up in my town knows that the guy who ran the drugstore blew his brains out.
I mean, it's not a big secret.
But you didn't want someone who didn't know to learn about it in some, I don't know.
And I wanted as much as possible.
I mean, I also changed the names of people who weren't in my immediate family.
I bet you make that pretty clear.
You even changed the names of Tex and Belinda.
Yeah, exactly.
Let's call it Reno.
Yeah.
I think it's cool.
Now, you mentioned the reunion with these kids, and you leave it for them.
You said, this is not my story, this is their story.
Well, that's sort of how I feel.
I mean, I really felt that way.
I felt like, you know, my time with my parents was mine.
And, I mean, I can say that it really, that they're, you know, terrific people and that they've stayed in touch with my mother and my brother, in fact, moved in with her.
And they were really thrilled to find each other.
I can't believe they pulled those kids away like that.
I know.
And they, see, they had always been told, I'd rather you not print this for his stepmother.
The old man, their daddy's dead, but for the stepmother's sake, but...
They had told them all their lives that she just ran off and left them.
So when they heard this story, it had for them, one, their father wouldn't talk to them about it for the 15 years.
I mean, he just died last year.
But two, he... No, the evil one here is the grandmother, it seems to me.
She seemed that way.
The thing is, that's what my half-brother and sister...
confirm that with me, that they remember her as this incredibly domineering, manipulative, controlling, a lot like my maternal grandmother, actually.
She was something.
She was a trap.
Now, again, I felt like I had to say that my sister got along with her okay, but she also, she does remember that she was nuts.
I mean, she was really crazy.
Lisa.
Yeah.
Crazy spelling.
Well, she's on morphine or something when they ask her to put it on.
Um,
This is just a start.
I'm wondering, this is such a poetic work and lyrical work.
Oh, thank you.
And, of course, you published two volumes of poetry, one of which I have.
I'm so tickled, you have my poems.
I wish I had the first book, but anyway, I'll find it.
I collect.
You're a bibliophile or something.
Yeah, yeah.
I have a book coming out from Hope in a Month on Bibliomania.
Oh, you're kidding!
Oh, that's great!
What's it going to be called?
The title is A Gentle Madness.
Oh!
Bibliophiles, Bibliomains, and the internal passion for books.
Oh, that's so great.
And we just got our first Perkins review.
Oh, how was it?
I read it.
Oh, that's great.
I got more link than Sue Grafton, who's also a whole project.
Isn't it great to be coming up?
I sold more books than Stephen King last week.
But his book was only out for like three days.
Oh, you know where this piece is going to run, by the way?
I have a paper in Long Island, Hamptons Magazine.
Oh, you're kidding.
Oh, great.
Who might run?
Well, I'm going to write it right away.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, great.
Why would I be out in the Hamptons this weekend?
I know that.
Oh, that's great.
You know, I'm marketing.
I'll have it in 25 or 30 papers.
Wow.
Salt Lake City, Eugene, Oregon.
I'm into lots of college towns.
Oh, that's great.
And then...
I mean, Knoxville, Gainesville, Charlottesville.
I went up to the three girls and I got them, but they're all university.
Toledo, Columbus.
Well, now, will Paul, will my publicist know all this?
I tell him, yeah.
Okay.
He said that you had a whole lot of syndications, but I just wanted to be sure that.
My mother will send her all these clippings.
I mean, that's what I do now.
Well, they'll be in Austin for sure.
For my mother.
So great.
Tallahassee.
Absolutely.
Let's not talk about that.
But anyway, we will get a lot of pickup.
Oh, terrific.
I've been so lucky already.
I mean, press-wise, it's been wonderful.
It's great.
It's been wonderful.
I mean, Mishiko's piece in The Times was a mind-blower.
Oh, my trip.
What were you just talking about, by the way?
I guess I'm curious when the... Can I ask the question of when... Yeah, I started to talk about the poetry.
When the poet's voice started to assert itself.
Well, I mean, look at... I know you say five years old.
That was when I decided I wanted to be a poet.
There were a bunch of... There was one E.E.
Cummings poem I really loved, and my mother taught me, read me, and I... I have a really good memory for poetry, and I did even as a child.
And then there's A.A.
Milne poems and the Winnie the Pooh books I always really liked.
And I think you grow up with my dad, you know, who has this... comes from this oral tradition that's just
all metaphor.
You know, it's raining like a cow fist on a flat rock.
I mean, if you start reading Milton, you know, the mind is its own place and it can make a hell of heaven or a heaven of hell.
It's just like home to me.
I mean, that didn't seem, that wasn't hard for me to, I was ready for that stuff.
You know, I was hungry for it.
And of course your father was such a great storyteller.
Yeah.
He was an unbelievably good storyteller.
He really was.
really, I mean, you know, really tickled me.
Did you think in terms of imagery at all?
When I was a kid?
Yeah.
I think so.
You know, I think so.
I mean, my mother was so visual and my father had this wonderful descriptive language, metaphoric language, you know, and yeah, I think so.
Are you hopeful that the
You talked directly to this kid that abused you, seven years old, eight, whatever it was.
Are you hopeful that this will be brought to you with some religious attention, I'm sure?
I don't know.
You know his name, I'm sure.
Sure, sure.
I don't know what I want from that.
I just wanted to... I guess so, yeah.
That was lose-lose for you the whole way, wasn't it?
What do you mean?
Well, I mean, there's nothing you could have done about it.
Because my father would have killed him.
Would have killed him, but you would have been...
Yeah, but even if I weren't, I knew my daddy would kill him and he would go to jail.
It's just no question.
Got him like a fish.
Would not have hesitated.
I mean, you know, it's funny, you know, I mean, in some ways.
No, no, but it is funny.
I mean, it's funny that, you know, that the desire, I mean, probably there's some Italian girls, you know, have the same thing, you know, I mean, the desire to protect the women in your family can actually wind up
You know, interfering with their ability to, you know, talk about such a thing.
I mean, it's ironic.
But you talk to him directly, though.
Yeah, I do.
I just step right out.
I was pissed.
I mean, I think this happens to a lot of people.
I mean, just say that.
I mean, I think the last statistic I heard, which I'm sure is inaccurate, either because I'm misremembering it, was that one in three women and one in five men had sexually abused in some way.
And I think most people, you know, take their power back.
You know, I think most people do just say, you know, I can't speak for anybody else, but I just, if those statistics are true, obviously we're not all walking around, a third of the women in America aren't walking around, you know, thinking what, you know.
I don't mean to be maudlin, but I mean, do you see it as a loss of innocence of some sort for yourself?
It wasn't, no.
No.
Actually, I don't.
It didn't have anything to do with... In fact, you're looking back as you write it, it's almost like you understood that you were set up by this guy for this.
I don't know if I would.
I mean, I remember just wondering, you know, whether it had been planned in advance or whether it was an occasion.
And I didn't know which would be worse, you know, whether I'd been sort of stalked and looked for or whether it was just one of those carpe diem deals for him.
But...
I mean, both seem really diminishing and terrifying.
You know, it was a bad night.
But I think, you know, these, you know, I mean, you can also be born in Rwanda, you know, I mean, just in all fairness to me on the, you know, I don't think, I just had a radio interview, you know, where the woman just talked to me like I was,
as if I were Oliver Twist or something.
You know, I was just this Dickensian child, you know, just beaten and abused, and I was just like... Well, you do describe it as a dysfunctional family, though.
You describe it.
It was nuts.
And this was the worst time in our lives.
I mean, it was a... I think every family has a really bad patch.
I mean, probably not this bad, but... But that's the thing.
I mean, a dysfunctional family, I once heard described as any family has more than one person in it.
So, and in some ways, we did function.
We just functioned differently than other people.
And, in fact, we're very good now.
A lot of the things we should be good at, we've got ten minutes.
A lot of the things we should have been good at, like baking cookies and having funerals and taking care of sick people, we're not so good at.
We're really good at various kinds of crises.
getting things done in a weird way.
I mean, my childhood bred a weird competence in myself and my sister.
You know what I think really impresses me is that you don't look back with any degree of bitterness to those years.
Who does?
I mean, whose parents didn't, you know, I was talking to somebody and I was saying, you know,
In fact, this radio interviewer was talking to me like I was this, you know, little wounded bird, and I said, you know, there are people whose parents never raise their voices, never do anything that you couldn't have on the 5 o'clock news, and exude such a steady stream of low-key scorn and disapproval for their children.
Now, that's a burden I didn't have to bear, you know.
My parents both gave me the sense
that I was adorable, you know, in some, I mean, really, in some, and, you know what I'm saying, I mean, I'm framing these quotes, I can see them in print, you know, but, no, but it's true, but it's true that, yeah, there are people, you know, you know, who grow up with a lot more money, and a lot, who don't have these kinds of periods in their lives, and who had less, sort of, bottom line approval,
My mother still thinks, I mean, even now, you know, things are, you know, coming out, there's a thing in Time Magazine today, you know, about her, you know, getting drunk and not being able to do anything.
In Time Magazine?
Yeah.
Today?
And, um, I can't even remember the thing.
You have to look at it.
Her getting drunk and not being able to take care of us.
And I called her about this when they first, when the reviews started coming.
And, um,
I said, Mother, does this upset you at all?
And she says, oh, shit, honey.
If I'd been the kind of person who gave a shit what people thought, I would have been home baking cookies and going to PTA, which I didn't do.
And she just thinks this is great.
I mean, her thought is, isn't this wonderful for Mary?
She's been writing all these years, you know.
Getting some attention, though.
Yeah.
I'd make a little bit of money driving on.
Exactly, exactly.
I mean, you know, a lot of people's mothers would be, you know... I'm bald.
Yeah, I mean, she's also been sober for 13 years.
You know, Pat Conroy, who writes novels about his family, I'm seeing him in New York on Wednesday before.
Oh, really?
And he's a friend.
He's right next to me in Time Magnum.
Is he?
Oh, really?
Then I'll have to get it, because I haven't seen him in the years of the book.
Oh, they jumped the gun.
I'm supposed to have a first interview with him.
It's very brief.
I mean, it's Time Magazine.
We're both on one page.
But supposedly, when his father read The Great Santee, and this is fiction, read The Great Santee, he threw the book across the room, so furious, and disappeared for three days.
And then when his mother was divorcing his father, she entered that book in evidence.
I mean, she gave it to the judge and said, this is what I read.
So you're talking about fiction, and these are supposed to be novels.
and yet here are the families going ballistic over what they read in... I mean, the other advantage I have in my family is, I mean, these things were secret for a long time, but there got to be a time when they weren't anymore.
So, for instance, I've had a lot of conversations with my mother over like a 15-year period about this period of time.
Fewer, actually, with my sister, and I think in some ways...
The book has been much harder for her.
For your sister?
Yeah, even though she's not ashamed of how she's portrayed.
I mean, you know, she's sort of a hero in the book.
She's not portrayed badly at all.
No, no, it's not that.
But I think it's been painful for her to remember that it all happened.
And she sort of dealt with it by not dealing with it.
But you don't look back on it as a nightmare.
The whole period of time?
Yeah.
It was a really bad, I mean, it was the worst time in my childhood.
For sure.
But it seems to me that the grandmother was 18 months ago.
Yeah, exactly.
She was awful.
That must have been terrible.
It was terrible, and it was scary, you know, when my mom was... And the smells proper.
Oh, I know.
You know, it's everything.
You can smell something that I can.
You can go shooting back 25 years.
I know.
It's supposed to be the seat of emotional memory or something.
Really?
That's what I read somewhere in some, like,
in the Science Times.
You came up with an image of a water moccasin of a snake.
Have you ever smelled one?
No, I haven't.
They really smell bad.
In fact, I don't know if there is another snake.
I was just down in Central America and saw a lot of snakes.
I don't know if there is another reptile.
I mean, it smells like a... You know, if you leave a... Hemingway is a great...
I believe it's in a story.
It might even be in that story where he dies.
Oh, God.
But anyway, where he's describing what death smells like.
And he says, you know, if you leave the flowers and all the whorehouses that have been rotting and left in the water and not taken out, and they take that and they take the slop buckets and they pour that out, and that's what death smells like.
And, you know, I mean, that's what the snake, the thing of the rotting flowers in the water, that's what those snakes smell like on the ground.
And that's what my grandmother smelled like, or that's what I remember her smelling like.
That's the image.
But where did the nickname pokey come from?
I don't have any idea.
You know, I've often wondered, in retrospect, if it didn't come from a, I was a very, um,
As high-strung as I am now, it's hard to believe, but I was a very fat, affable, slow-moving child.
I dawdled endlessly.
So I don't know if it's because I was Pokey, or if it was from, like, Gumby, and he had a little pony named Pokey, remember?
I don't know where it came from.
He was a mine of names like this.
I mean, he came up with names for everybody, you know.
Would you say that your father was the love of your mother's life in your own?
Gosh, I couldn't speak for her.
She certainly spent the longest time with him.
And, you know, she's the one husband, I guess, who would have been willing to take... Who put up with her.
Who also would have taken the two other kids.
Yes.
Yeah, that was his... Which is noble.
Yeah.
No, he loved kids.
I mean, he was one of these guys.
If you had him in a restaurant and there was a kid, he'd have to have its attention.
You know what I mean?
or a bar or something, somebody had a bed of you would have to hold it, you know.
You just love kids.
You like little kids.
And was it hard for you to establish this voice with a couple of new reviews?
I don't know if you've seen Gayle Caldwell's review yet.
I heard it was great.
Somebody read it to me, but I haven't seen it.
Sarah Constantine.
She's a Texas gal.
I know.
Every time there's a Texan, I'm all tickled.
And she throws a few little lines in herself, you know.
Well, I think... I think she's West Texas.
Actually, she said she grew up within spitting distance of Europe.
Oh, is that right?
Yeah, she said.
It sounds like it.
If you don't get them, you will.
Oh, I'll get it.
They'll send it to me eventually.
I've been trying not to pay too much attention to them.
You know, I think it's not healthy.
Yeah, I agree.
I just think it's none of my business.
The worst thing people can do is ask you what your world needs are.
You know, what you don't want.
Who cares?
I just, it's none of my business, you know.
I write the books and they do it.
But you asked about my father's, about my voice.
I just pretty much tried to steal his voice as much as possible.
For this memoir.
In a way, yeah, I see it really as an homage to him.
He was a real, it's funny, it's interesting.
I don't see him more than your mother.
My mother's not a great storyteller.
My mother does very dramatic things that are fun to write about.
The book, though, is an homage to your father?
The voices.
Okay, I misunderstood.
He had a couple of things.
He had an amazing ability to imitate somebody and to capture, like Chekhov, like in a single detail, somebody's character.
You know, to say the one thing about them that would tell you everything about the character.
The precise ones.
Yes.
Well, and the thing, the detail, you know, how their hair was, or a big guy who happened to have small feminine hands, you know, or, you know, something like, he was just very astute student of character.
And then he had this wonderful idiom with all this great metaphor and description, and he also had real, I mean, I had, I set down a story of his, I think, I transcribed it,
from tape in one of the last two chapters he had real pacing he had the ability to pace something to plant something at the beginning that you would then sort of suspense i guess you would sort of wonder until the end about it and then to pace it in such a way as to increase the drama did you know when you were writing this that you were pointing towards this final section i knew that i was yeah because i wrote a proposal for it
before I wrote it, and I knew that I wanted to cover this two-year period, and I knew that I would, that any reader would want to know what happened, you know, after this time, and that I would have to leap forward, and so my editor kept working, saying, you know, have you figured out how you're going to move forward in time, have you figured out anything, and so I finally
you know, before I got there, I said, how about 17 years later?
I mean, you know what I mean?
It's not an epilogue in any way.
It really is part of the book.
It's supposed to be part, I mean, yeah, you want to know what the story is, and that's where the secret comes out, and that's, so, I mean, I tried to have it have a whole, you know, plot, and there was just an intervening 17 years.
I thought you wouldn't like me anymore.
It's heartbreaking.
I know.
she is so unbelievable i tell you something about my mother you really could she has a wonderful quality i got really mad at her a couple years ago when my marriage broke up i went i took my son down to texas she promised me she would take care of him while i worked out every day and he was a toddler and a wild man just like a i should go see him just like a chimpanzee and he said um
She said she'd take care of him, swore up and down, yes, yes, I'll do this, I'll do this.
And after a couple days, she said, I can't for an hour, guys.
She said, I can't do this.
You know I don't do kids.
And I said, Mother, you don't do kids.
You don't cook, you don't claim.
You haven't had a job in 40 years.
What exactly do you bring to the party?
And she said, she thought for a minute, she said, I'm a lot of fun to be with.
That's the quote we can end a piece with.
Isn't that a great?
Well, somebody's got to use it.
It's too good.
I do, and it's... What kind of name is that?
Good for you.
We've got a good interview here.